---
title: mbloom
description: 'An identity and website for Hawaii’s first early-stage technology fund.'
role:
- UI/UX Design
- Front-End Development
img: mbloom/mbloom-feature.jpg
img-inner: mbloom/mbloom-feature-inner.png
color: '#5AAAAD'
layout: project
class: projects
social: /assets/img/projects/mbloom/mbloom-social.jpg
---

mbloom is Hawaii’s first early-stage technology fund focused on investing in teams working to improve the world with revolutionary technologies. Our task was to establish a professional website and mature the brand.

Our goal was to position the company as knowledgable and welcoming to early-stage companies seeking advice about entering into investment circles. We wanted to demystify funding and offer advice to those starting out.

We expanded the color palette to include two primary colors and introduced [Gotham Rounded](http://www.typography.com/fonts/gotham-rounded/overview/) and [Sentinel](http://www.typography.com/fonts/sentinel/overview/) to establish, a professional, inviting tone.

Friendly illustrations peppered throughout the site strengthen the core message of inclusion and help round out the new brand positioning very well.

## Branding

{% include project__img.html
img__path = "mbloom/mbloom-logo.svg"
img__alt = "mbloom logo"
img__description = "Primary logo."
%}

{% include project__img.html
img__path = "mbloom/mbloom-illustrations.svg"
img__alt = "mbloom illustrations"
img__description = "Brand illustrations used throughout the site and secondary branded materials."
%}

## Website

{% include project__img.html
img__path = "mbloom/mbloom-home.png"
img__alt = "mbloom home page"
img__description = "The goal of the home page was to let users know exactly who mbloom was and what they stood for. Keeping pertinent contact information as clear calls to action relayed the idea that there are people behind the fund who want to help."
img__oversized = true
%}

{% include project__img.html
img__path = "mbloom/mbloom-overview.png"
img__alt = "mbloom children pages"
img__description = "The about page focused on educating users a bit more about the history of mbloom and how they invest. The portfolio and team pages needed to be easy to glance over to find appropriate information for users."
img__oversized = true
%}